Compiling kRPC
==============

Getting the source code
-----------------------

First you need to download a copy of the source code, which is available from
`GitHub <https://github.com/krpc/krpc>`_ or using the following on the command
line:

.. code-block:: bash

   git clone https://github.com/krpc/krpc

Install Dependencies
--------------------

Next you need to install `Bazel <https://bazel.io>`_. This is the build system
used to compile the project.

The Bazel build scripts will automatically download most of the required
dependencies for the project, but the following need to be installed manually on
your system:

 * `Mono C# compiler, runtime and tools <https://www.mono-project.com/download/>`_
 * Python and virtualenv
 * Autotools
 * LuaRocks
 * pdflatex, rsvg, libxml, libxslt and python headers (for building the documentation)

To install these dependencies via apt on Ubuntu, first follow the instructions on `Mono's website
<http://www.mono-project.com/download>`_ to add their apt repository. Then run the following
command:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo apt-get install mono-complete python-setuptools python-virtualenv \
   python-dev autoconf libtool luarocks texlive-latex-base \
   texlive-latex-recommended texlive-fonts-recommended texlive-latex-extra \
   libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev librsvg2-bin

Set Up your Environment
-----------------------

Before building kRPC you need to make ``lib/ksp`` point to a directory
containing Kerbal Space Program. For example on Linux, if your KSP directory is
at ``/path/to/ksp`` and your kRPC source tree is at ``/path/to/krpc`` you can
create a symlink using ``ln -s /path/to/ksp /path/to/krpc/lib/ksp``

You may also need to modify the symlink at ``lib/mono-4.5`` to point to the
correct location of your Mono installation.

Building using Bazel
--------------------

To build the kRPC release archive, run ``bazel build //:krpc``. The resulting
archive containing the GameData directory, client libraries etc will be created
at ``bazel-out/krpc-<version>.zip``.

The build scripts also define targets for the different parts of the
project. They can be built using ``bazel build <target>``:

* ``//server`` builds the server plugin and associated files
* Targets for building individual clients:

  * ``//client/csharp``
  * ``//client/cpp``
  * ``//client/java``
  * ``//client/lua``
  * ``//client/python``

* Targets for building individual services:

  * ``//service/SpaceCenter``
  * ``//service/Drawing``
  * ``//service/UI``
  * ``//service/InfernalRobotics``
  * ``//service/KerbalAlarmClock``
  * ``//service/RemoteTech``

* Targets for building protobuf definitions for individual languages:

  * ``//protobuf/csharp``
  * ``//protobuf/cpp``
  * ``//protobuf/java``
  * ``//protobuf/lua``
  * ``//protobuf/python``

* ``//doc:html`` builds the HTML documentation
* ``//doc:pdf`` builds the PDF documentation

There are also several convenience scripts:

* ``tools/serve-docs.sh`` -- builds the documentation and serves it from
  ``http://localhost:8080``
* ``tools/install.sh`` -- builds the plugin and the testing tools, and installs
  them into the GameData directory of the copy of KSP found at ``lib/ksp``.

Building the C# projects using an IDE
-------------------------------------

A C# solution file (``kRPC.sln``) is provided in the root of the project for use
with MonoDevelop or a similar C# IDE.

Some of the C# source files it references are generated by the Bazel build
scripts. You need to run ``bazel build //:csproj`` to generate these files
before the solution can be built.

Alternatively, if you are unable to run Bazel to build these files, you can
:github-download-zip:`download them from GitHub<krpc-genfiles>`. Simply extract
this archive over your copy of the source and you are good to go.

Running the Tests
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

kRPC contains a suite of tests for the server plugin, services, client
libraries and others.

The tests, which do not require KSP to be running, can be executed using:
``bazel test //:test``

kRPC also includes a suite of tests that require KSP to be running. First run
``tools/install.sh`` to build kRPC and a testing tools DLL, and install them
into the GameData directory of the copy of KSP found at ``lib/ksp``. Then run
KSP, load a save game and start the server (with automatically accept client
connections enabled). Then install the krpc python client, the krpctest package
(built by target ``//tools/krpctest``) and run the scripts to test a particular
service, for example those found in ``service/SpaceCenter/test``. These tests
will automatically load a save game called ``krpctest``, launch a vessel and run
various tests on it.
